So first, let’s talk about apostasy,
and we’ll call it spiritual poison.
Now, think about poison.
What’s the best way to avoid being poisoned?
Well, we have to recognize poison
when we see it, and then avoid it.
And the same principle applies to teachings
that could destroy our faith.
And that’s not always easy.
No, not many of our brothers and sisters
would deliberately
get involved with apostates,
but it could happen without our realizing it.
We receive letters at times
from brothers and sisters
who are troubled
by something they saw on a web page,
an accusation, a rumor
about the Society,
or about the organization.
And the problem is, they had no idea
that apostates were behind it.
It’s tricky
because the apostates don’t advertise,
“You are now on an apostate web page.”
They often pose as sincere Witnesses
who just have questions or concerns.
And some who aren’t really apostates
can cause just as much trouble
as the apostates do
by their negative talk and criticism.
Brothers, we need to be on the alert.
This is serious.
Suppose that out of curiosity
you get into a discussion forum
with individuals
who claim to be Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Now, maybe they are, maybe they aren’t.
You don’t know.
You’ve never met them.
And someone starts asking questions:
“What did you think
of last month’s broadcast?
Did you really find it encouraging?”
or “Do you think the brothers who write
Watchtower  articles
“are living in the real world?
I wonder if they realize
just how hard it is out here.”
And then a few others join in
with their own negative comments.
Now, you don’t know whether these individuals
are apostates or just brothers and sisters
who are in serious spiritual trouble.
But does it matter?
How does it make you feel?
When you leave the forum,
do you feel upbuilt,
determined to expand your ministry,
more convinced than ever that Jehovah
has an organization
that you love and that you’re delighted
to be a part of?
Do you feel honored
to be a part of that organization?
Or does the experience leave you sad,
uneasy, uncomfortable?
Now, someone might say,
“I need to get involved in that forum
so that I can help those people.”
They shouldn’t be together.
Even if they aren’t apostates,
they’re not good for one another.
Staying in that forum to “help someone”
is like holding his hand
while he drinks poison
and then having some yourself
so that he doesn’t have to drink alone.
We need to follow the advice
recorded at Romans 16:17.
Now think about this imaginary forum
that we just described
in the light of Romans 16:17.
Remember, there are all kinds
of negative talk flying around in this forum;
you don’t know who’s behind it.
And here’s what it says at Romans 16:17:
“Now I urge you, brothers,
“to keep your eye on those
“who create divisions
“and causes for stumbling
“contrary to the teaching
that you have learned,
and avoid them.”
Now think about that forum.
Does it create divisions?
Yes.
Is it a cause for stumbling?
Could be.
Is it contrary to what we have learned?
Do we even have to answer that question?
Now, whether it’s intended or not,
the effect will be to weaken our faith.
So, what do we do?
What does Paul tell us to do here
at the end of verse 17?
He says: “Avoid them.”
Now, I’d like to say a kind word
to some who may be involved
in discussion forums.
You may like to use this medium
to blow off steam, so to speak.
Maybe there are little things
in the congregation that are happening
that you wonder about
or decisions the elders have made
that you wonder about,
and so you write.
You get involved in the forum,
and you blow off steam,
and after that, you feel better.
But what about others in the forum?
How do they feel?
Wouldn’t you feel awful
if negative comments you made
were responsible
for someone leaving the truth?
I know you wouldn’t want that to happen.
So please, please,
be careful about what you say.
Now, another person might say:
“Well, I can see where those warnings
about apostates apply to so-and-so.
“He’s weak, but don’t worry about me.
I’m spiritually strong.
I can handle it.”
That’s like a weight lifter
thinking that he can drink a vial of poison
and it won’t hurt him
because he’s so big and strong.
We are not so strong,
so spiritual, so intelligent
that we can’t be affected
by the poison of apostate ideas.